---
layout: post
title: "Data Visualisation: The Analyst's Most Valuable Soft Skill"
---   
**When communication is the analyst's most valuable soft skill, visualisation bridges data and understanding**

[comment]: <> (This is a comment, it will not be included)  

[//]: <> (This is also a comment.)



> Hard skills determine if you will win or lose, soft skills determine by how much   

My line manager at Babylon Health.  

After academic presentations I would notice that some people would speak to me not about the topic of research but rather the visuals that I used to communicate them. I conducted research in observational cosmology, and I will be the first to admit that after some conversations with my Ph.D advisor I would have to research a bit to fully appreciate the exchange that we had.  

After sending for publication my first paper I was preparing for the next step - giving a full length presentation. This meant standing in front of a group of highly educated individuals and conveying 

> That's my slide!  

[//]: # (Me pleasantly surprised as a postdoc attending a talk of a professor presenting a visual that I created)


Topics to cover: 
* Intro: creating a graph led me to my first publication (wekend with server's down. )
* Communication as a soft skill  
* Ability to critic a figure
* Expressiveness and Effectiveness principles (include the graph from the course)  
* Resources - [Coursera Specialization 4 Moocs](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/information-visualization), D3 links, [D3 Mooc](https://www.coursera.org/learn/information-visualization-programming-d3js)   
* Examples: model report card, dancing amino acids, multi-objective optimisation, A/B test results. From The Economist?   
* Interactivity - widgets!  
* Take mental burden off of the reader  
* Attention - Bayesian Surprise  
* Dashboarding - Voila and others  
* Tools: (not a topic to dive into but briefly mentoin D3) 
* Concrete example: use transpareny of on colors, or search nice hex values and patterns.
* Uncertainties
* Have them come back for more   - Chris Blake on how the improtance of not burdneing the listeners with too much information
* You are in a room wih a lot of smart people - tell them a story that they will enjoy  




 


