---
layout: post
title:  "Video Diary 2020"
---

As in the past eight years, I have just completed my 2020 video diary, 
in which I recorded two(ish) seconds every day, this year missing only four!   

Below I detail this year's highlights some of which are captured within the video. 

Enjoy!


<iframe width="420" height="315" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/jFw5EYQ-Rtg" 
frameborder="0" allowfullscreen>
</iframe>

Days missed: April 9th, August 22nd, October 14th, December 20th.  

For this project i used my Pixel 2XL, and compiled with iMovie on my Mac.   


This is perhaps the most consistent thing in my life, 
and have documented the experience in [a blog post](http://bit.ly/2CBMyv9).  
Links to video diaries of other years:    
2019, 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013. 

## 2020 In Detail

CoronaVirus plagued the world putting us in lockdown for most of the year. 
Michal and I, being on the conservative side, 
spent many weeks at a time in our cozy apartment.
As most people, this means that this year we had no travel whatsoever. In particular my streak of visiting Israel every year since leaving 
in 2004 came to an end.

Instead of travel we met our families via Zoom, 
at best once a fortnight on Sunday evenings for *KaZoom* sessions. 
On November 26th we also conducted one for Grandma’s 95th birthday. 

One highlight at home is that we converted our small secondary bedroom to an office 
and started purchasing things to keep us comfy and productive from tables to plants.
 
In the following I summarise my Work and then Life experiences of 2020.  

-----------
### Work In 2020

#### Job Changes
This year started off for me on a sour note, as on January 20th I was let go by 
LabGenius. I can only be appreciative that I was given the opportunity to 
learn a on the job lot of biology, 
and in particular about drug discovery and protein engineering, which serves me well 
in understanding the amazing fine details of the development of the current pandemic. 
Another anecdote is that, for a while, I got to say that I worked in a biscuit factory 
and lived in a rice mill (both former, of course ...).

A sweet aspect of the layoff, however, was that I was given two months pay (in lieu),  
which was a great opportunity for me to upskill and look for new opportunities, 
while enjoying some *funemployment*.  E.g, this enabled me to learn how to create these 
blog post.  

Michal also searched for a new job and we both landed offers 
one day after each other on March 25th and 26th. 
One fun fact is that we are customers of both companies which motivated our applications, 
where I joined forces at our health provider Babylon Health.   

Another fun fact is that we timed it such that we started working on the same day, 
April 14th.  
I believe that both of us were in the first wave of people to 
both be interviewed and start working completely remote. 
During the year I visited the office, out of choice, three times.  

((Picture of us starting together))  



#### PyData Global
I proposed three talks for the annual PyData Global meetup, and they accepted one (August 26th), for which I prepared a tutorial that was hosted in the program on Nov 11th - 25th. All the material is on github ([bitly link])

#### Adopt A Physicist   

((blog worthy)  
For the past ten years I have participated in a program that set ups correspondances 
between trained physicists and high school student. The students get to ask me 
about questions about life in physics (and in general) and I try my best to give them 
useful advise, and if not than at least something anecdotal :-) .

This year one of the highschool teacher was quite ambitious and had them write haikus 
about the physicists.  
Here is mine:  


image!


#### Work Studies
* Deep learning, in particular, I participated in a  fast.ai study group.
* Data visualisation in general and with D3 in particular
* I Started learning Causal inference at the end of the year. 
Something that I look forward continuing throughout 2021.

#### Recommended Work Books
* Protein Therapeutics
* Hands On Machine Learning with Scikit-Learn, Keras & Tensorflow / Aurélien Géron
* The Book Of Why / Judea Pearl
* Causal Inference in Statistics: A Primer / Pearl, Glymour, Jewell
* D3 for the Impatient / Janert 

-----------
### Life In 2020


#### Theatre
We managed to squeeze in Hamilton (2nd time) and Tina at the beginning of the year before the lockdowns started.

#### TV Series Binging 
We did not go to the movie theatres but we continued to binge a lot. 
 
Here I mention noteworthy ones that I highly recommend (I try to 
sort here by order of recommendation). 
At the very bottom of the post I list **all** the TV series that I can recall seeing.    

**Israeli productions**   
*  הטבח
*  לאבד את אליס
*  מנייאכ
*  חזרות
* Polishook (this is the Israeli version of The Thick Of It, or American Veep)

**Mostly USA and British productions**  
* Succession 
* West Wing (second viewing even better than first!)
* What We Do In The Shadows
* Queens Gambit
* Kidding
* The Last Dance
* Homecoming
* The Plot Against America
* Better Called Saul
* Genius
* Ted Lasso 
* I Know This Much Is True


Also I loved keeping up to speed with current events Stephen Colbert through his anecdotal 
A Tonight Show, as well as Tooning Out The News. 

#### Movies 
We didn't see that many movies this year, as far as I recall we saw:  
* A Beautiful day in the neighborhood
* Bombshell
* 1917
* Parasites
* Watchmen (movie)
* Hunting the Wilderpeople
* Soul.

#### Music
Truth be told, there was not much going on new that excited me this year.  
Two mention worthy artists that I learned to appreciate this year: 
* Niki Minaj - A guilty pleasure of mine. She has great flow and very creative. E.g, see her going toe to toe with Stephen Colbert.
* Janelle Monáe - multi talented actor (Homecoming) and pop artist with a Prince like flare. 

#### Podcasts 

I listened to a lot. So much so that I wrote a blog about recommendations. 

#### Recommended Life Books  

(blog post:  life changing books)
I did some reading, too, many thanks to, for the first time, making use of the local library. 

* The Daily Stoic / Holiday, Hanselman - I averaged one meditation of on wisdom a day  
* Why We Sleep / Matthew Walker - I adapted my sleeping habits to learnings from this book  
* Behave / Robert Sopolsky  
* 12 Rules For Life / Jordan Peterson
* Enlightenment Now / Steven Pinker - Talks about human progress and reasons we all should be proud of our species 
* Doughnut Economy 
* A life in invention / Nikola Tesla
* Letter from an Astro Physicist / Neil Degrasse Tyson

I consider a few books as life changers. This year these are Why We Sleep, 
and 12 Rules For Life. I added these to my list of influential books that I feel 
best articulate human understanding and progress.

I have mentioned in the Work Book section The Book Of Why by Judea Pearl which also 
goes to this list. I started making a secondary list of influential books written 
by Israeli authors, that I consider intellectual heroes, which now include Judea Pearl, 
Yuval Noach Harari (Sapiens), Daniel Kalamahan (Thinking Fast And Slow) and Amos Tverski.  

  
A further list of influential Jews would be require much more thought 
(offhand Einstein, Feynman, Chomsky, ...) and all Homo Sapiens would be even more so 
(Jordan Peterson, Steven Pinker, ...).  


These sort of lists do exclude other great authors that I love their style 
(E.g, Michael Lewis, Paul Auster, Yonatan Gefen יהונתן גפן) for the simple reason that 
even though I love their writing styles and creative approaches to story telling, 
their writings do not encompass the intellctual depth that the other do.    


#### Food

We are still (for the most part) vegetarian since late 2017, 
and I have done some intermediate fasting (600 calories per fasting day). 
Normally 6:1 (i.e, 1 day fasting per week), and possibly once 5:2 (2 days fasting per week) . 
Food-wise, Michal and I are still big on stir fry and shakshuka and very happy that there are a lot of plant based products emerging. 
Popcorn is always a fun snack, although we started stacking up on icecream, too. 
We also perfected the home meal experience of the veggie burger.


#### Meditation 
I didn't do as much Vipassana sessoins as I would like, but I did practice it once 
and a while, normally between ten to, at most, and rarely 25-30 minutes.  

I did, though, meditate nearly daily on passages from The Daily Stoic by Holiday, Hanselman.  

#### Sports

I did some long distance running in the beginning of the year. 
That was replaced with bicycle riding. 
At first I used Michal’s small bike until I bought my own from a neighbor. 
I started cycling for hours, around our area to the Babylon office and back 
(11km each direction) and even to Richmond park and back. Michal made progress in her bike training. 
Besides that Covid-19 made us stop using the pool but did get us into the gym, especially on the Elliptical.

#### Chess  

(blog post worthy, especially about the adrenaline)


I got addicted to chess, yet again, third time in my life. 
I managed to contain it, though.  
Since I am not a competitive type, and do not like to make rash decisions, 
as required in short time limited chess, I found that the best approach for me 
is to play games with daily moves.  

I'm currently playing with people on chess.com and lichess.org. 

#### Technology
I’m still using the same MacBook Air that I purchased in 2013 
(I replaced the battery in August). 
Michal decided to buy us a Deebot (called ZurDeebot) that cleans our floor for us. 

My Pixel 2XL is still functioning, but tends to turn off when I connect to electricity 
(except for when the media is playing!...)


#### Life Studies
Perhaps the only hobby, outside of work, that I developed this year is 
learning to play a little Bosa Nova on guitar.   

Michal was much more very creative: learned and grew a garden, 
learned to bake bread and make her own humus, as well as making beautiful physical diaries.


#### All TV Series

Series the Michal and I binged together.  
The series are ordered by tie in which we watched (rather than recommendation).  

**Israeli productions**   
*  נייעס
* Our Boys
*  הטבח
* Unorthodox
*  לאבד את אליס
* Tehran
*  מנייאכ
*  חזרות

**Mostly USA and British productions**   
* Modern Love
* Catastrophe
* The Morning Show
* The Jinx
* Avenue 5
* Kidding S02
* Gangs Of London
* Unreal S01
* Mars
* The Last Dance
* Tiger King
* Watchmen (series)
* American Vandal S01
* Raised By Wolves
* Succession
* Line Of Duty
* The Killing
* When They See Us
* The Devil Next Door
* Upload
* Dead To Me
* Filthy Rich
* Queens Gambit
* Ted Lasso 
* The Boys
* Home Coming
* The Hour 
* This Is Us
* The Crown S04
* Mindhunter
* Murder On Middle Beach 
* What We Do In The Shadows

Series that I binged on my own by order in which I watched (as opposed to recommendation) 
*  היהודים באים
* Las Casa De Papel
* The Plot Against America
* Better Called Saul S05
* Genius S02
* Fauda
* Mrs. America
* After Life.
* El Chapo
* I Know This Much Is True
* Polishook S03
* Dark S02
* Killing Eve S03
* West Wing S01-S03 (second viewing even better than first!)
* Nuremberg
* Ozark S03


